Superglue: synchronize DNS delegations
======================================

Superglue is a suite of programs for updating the delegation in a
parent zone so that it is consistent with the contents of the child
zone.

There are multiple programs for updating delegations, which vary
depending on the API used to communicate with the zone's registrar
or registry.

Input format
------------

Every superglue program reads delegation records in a subset of
standard RFC 1035 master file format. TTLs are ignored; $ directives,
\ escapes, "strings", and () continuations are not supported.

The input can contain NS records, DS records, or both. The owner name
of these records must match the zone. $ORIGIN and the default owner
are set to the zone name so you can abbreviate the input using omitted
or unqualified domain names in the standard way.

If the NS RRset or DS RRset are missing, that part of the delegation
is left alone, so it isn't possible to use superglue to delete a
delegation or make a zone insecure.

If the NS record targets include hostnames at or below the zone name
then glue A and/or AAAA records are required.

Login credentials
-----------------

Every superglue program gets its login credentials from a file in a
standard format.

Blank lines or comment lines starting with a `#` are ignored.
Other lines have the form `<keyword><space><value>`.

Different superglue programs use different keywords depending on the
requirements of the API they use. Most of them need `user` and `pass`
credentials.

deleget
-------

The deleget utility queries a child zone to produce delegation records
that can be passed to superglue to update the delegation in the parent
zone. This is useful if your DNS provisioning system can't emit the
delegation records itself.

superglue
---------

The umbrella superglue program works out how a domain was registered
and therefore which sub-program should be used to update its delegation.
(Not yet written.)

superglue-janet
---------------

JANET do not provide an API for updating domain delegations, only a
[JavaScript-heavy web site][JANET]. The superglue-janet program uses
PhantomJS and CasperJS to drive the web site using mainly its HTML
id=... attributes. We hope these will be reasonably stable!

[JANET]: https://naming.ja.net/dns/ JANET DNS management web site
