.Dd May 15, 2015
.Dt DELEGET 1 "DNS Commands Manual"
.Os DNS
.Sh NAME
.Nm deleget
.Nd print a zone's delegation records
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl ARlm
.Op Fl a Ar auth
.Op Fl r Ar rec
.Op Fl s Ar ns
.Aq Ar domain
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program prints a
.Tn DNS
zone's delegation records
in standard RFC 1035 master file format.
These are the records that should appear in the parent zone.
The output of
.Nm
is suitable as input for
.Nm superglue .
.Pp
The delegation NS records are copied from the zone's apex.
The DS records are converted from the zone's DNSKEY records.
Glue address records are included
for any name server whose name is at or below the zone apex.
.Pp
The
.Nm dig
utility is used for DNS lookups,
and the
.Nm dnssec-dsfromkey
utility is used to convert DNSKEY records to DS records.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl A
Make authoritative queries for glue records.
By default,
.Nm
uses recursive queries to get glue
because the glue records may be in child zones
for which the server is not authoritative.
.It Fl a Aq Ar auth
The name or IP address of the server to query
for NS and DNSKEY records.
By default,
.Nm
uses the
.Pa /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver.
.It Fl l
Use localhost for NS and DNSKEY queries.
Handy when you run
.Nm
on the zone's primary master.
.It Fl m
Get the zone's primary master from its
SOA record MNAME field,
to use for NS and DNSKEY queries.
.It Fl R
Make recursive queries for NS and DNSKEY records.
By default
.Nm
expects to query an authoritative server.
.It Fl r Aq Ar rec
The name or IP address of the server to query
for glue and SOA records.
.It Fl s Aq Ar ns
The name or IP address of the server to
use for all queries.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages are of the form:
.Bl -item
.It
.Li deleget:
.Aq Ar STATUS
.Li error from dig
.Ao + Ns Ar options Ns ... Ac
.Aq Ar domain
.Aq Ar TYPE
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dig 1 ,
.Xr dnssec-dsfromkey 8 ,
.Xr superglue 1 .
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Tony Finch
.Aq Li dot@dotat.at
.Aq Li fanf2@cam.ac.uk
.br
at Cambridge University Information Services
.\" You may do anything with this. It has no warranty.
.\" http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
